Switch statements are another
decision structure.
They basically solve the problem in
the same way that the if-else-if does, so
it's multiple branches, multiple
possibilities, more than two, right?
Yeah, so good when there's
more than two possible paths.
The difference between the if-else-if in
the switch is that the switch checks for
equality on a condition.
Whereas, for example,
in the program we just wrote,
we said if the score is less than this,
then it's this,
there's no less than or
anything like that.
With Switch, it's straight up equality.
Does this equal this?
Okay, so let's go ahead and
write another version
of that grade program.
We'll have them enter the letter
grade this time versus the score and
then we're gonna use a switch statement
to print out a message basically.
Like letting them know what how they
did it, okay so back to our IDE.
And let's go ahead and
call this one great message and
this will be in the decision
structure package, so
GradeMessage, All right?
I'm making my main method, and
I'm going to ask them for a letter grade.
We'll read that in with our scanner.
Import scanner.
System that in and
the letter grade is what?
A character, right?
I'm gonna read it in.
Let me read it in as a char.
I don't know if scanner
has a thing let me see.
grade scanner.next.
Okay, it doesn't have one that reads
char so we'll make it a string and
All right, great.
So in scanner.next,
we'll read in a string.
All right, so we have our grade,
let's go ahead and close the scanner.
And I want to essentially initialize
a message based on the grade.
So I'll say string message.
We won't give it a value for now, and
we're going to use the switch decision
structure to determine how do we
initialize the message, right.
So to use switch,
we write the word switch.
Inside of a set of parentheses,
you're going to put the variable
that you want it to evaluate.
So that would be grade, right?
So look at grade and then, remember,
it's going to check for equality.
So within the switch statement,
we write what's called cases.
So we can say case, and then you
give it a possible value for grade.
So if the case is that
grade is equal to A,
then you put a semicolon and
any statements that
you will want executed
if this is the case.
So I'm gonna say I want
the message to be excellent job..
Okay, your IDE would have automatically
indented that message statement
to let you know that
that's a part of the case.
And then once I'm done with the case,
I can write as many
statements as I want here, but
when I'm done with that case,
I need to write break to let
the compiler know, I'm done.
All right and
then you can follow this with however
many cases you want so
our next case would be B.
And if they gotta B we'll say good job and
then we'll break.
Okay, I want to show you,
we'll write the rest but
I wanna show you what happens
if you don't write the break.
What's going to happen is
what's called fall through.
So in switch cases,
if I omit this break statement,
if A happens to be the case,
grade equals A,
it'll come here, it'll say,
okay, let me assign
excellent job to message,
but there's no break.
The programmer must want me to keep going.
So it won't even evaluate the next case,
it's just gonna go right in there.
And it'll override message to good job.
And that will be what happens.
So you'll end up in the wrong case.
All right, it will do what you wanted
it to do but it will keep going untill
it hits the break statement,
so, that's called fall through.
Some times you want fall through to
happen most times you don't, all right.
So,that's case B, case C we'll say
message =, what's the message for C?
>> Keep trying.
[LAUGH]
>> [LAUGH] Let's say good job, and
we'll say great job here.
All right C is, I guess, doable, right?
D is when you get yourself in trouble.
Okay, case D.
>> You can do better.
>> You can [LAUGH] message=you
need to work a bit harder.
>> You have any examples or
follow through might be useful?
>> Yeah.
Yeah, good question.
Let's say that you want
to do something special
if they match the first case, right?
You want to do something different
if they match the second case, but
for the first case you will want
the code that's special to them,
but also the code that's
applicable to the second case.
So you want two things written, but
you don't want to duplicate the code
that's common between those two cases.
So you can set it up where you say, all
right, if you match this case, do this,
but fall through to the next one so
you can do the rest of it too.
And if you just match the second case,
you wouldn't get the first statements.
>> So its kind of like a almost like a
flowchart where you're trying to check off
boxes and essentially hit a condition
where it's no longer true?
>> And then follow you but
the no longer true part.
>> Well, you know, case A,
B and C, they meet the case for
case A and I made the case for case B.
Those are both true so you do this, they
don't meet the case for case C, and so
you wanna stop there and you don't wanna
move along further in the process.
>> Right, but there's also some
differences if they only meet B.
So for A, I will want A and B.
For B I just want B.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
All right.
So if they got an F, we'll say,
and then we'll break.
Okay, so
that's all of the possible cases but
we know that human beings don't
care about possible cases, right?
So someone might enter something like a Z,
for example, right?
And it might not even be that
they're doing this out of error,
but maybe in their culture, their country,
or whatever,
the letters are different, right?
So we don't support that.
So we just need to take care
of those cases in switch
you can add a case that's called default.
The default case means,
if it doesn't match any of these
other cases, just do this.
So, here we'll just supply
a little error message,
we'll say, Error _Invalid grade.
And we'll break this as well.
Okay, so after our switch statement,
we'll go ahead and print out the message.
Does this make sense?
Okay, questions on switch, let's.
>> But
if you wanted to force a good response,
like you don't just want to like
print out an error message.
You wanna force them to keep going until.
>> Yeah, so
we can handle that with a loop and
we'll actually code up a case like
that when we talk about the loops.
>> Do you always need to
end with a default case?
>> You don't have to add a default case.
So what will happen,
let's see what will happen.
All right.
Okay, so,
I don't have a default case here, right?
And then I'm trying to use message later.
So it's gonna say message might not have
been initialized because I could have
a possibility where it's not.
If I just did not want the default case,
I could go back here and
I can initialize this to maybe
a blank string to start off with.
And now I don't have a default and
I can print this.
So what'll happen is,
I think nothing's gonna happen.
Let's go ahead and
try to run it just to prove that out.
So let's say enter your grade and
we're going to say a Z, right?
In that case, nothing happens,
it just ends, okay?
So you don't have to,
but it's good practice
just to make sure you
have something going on.
All right, great question.
Any others?
All right,
let's run it again with our good cases.
Enter your letter grade,
B, great job, okay.
Let's show the, fall through.
So I'm going to omit the break and
I should get excellent when I say A but
I'm gonna get grade.
So let's run it again.
My grade is an A and
notice I got great because it overrode it.
>> I think you might have
just talked about this.
I was kind of distracted, but it says
variable grade might not be initialized.
Is that what you were just talking about?
>> Right, so
if you did not have the default case,
there's a possibility that none
of these cases matched message.
And so when you try to use message it says
we're not sure message has a value, right?
So what you could do is if you
didn't want the default you could
just initialize this to A blank string or
whatever you wanted to.
And then once you do that, the error goes
away because it has some value there.